.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

## Overview

<!--
What issue are you addressing? (for example, #1234)

If an issue doesn't exist for this pull request (PR) to address, please open one to allow for discussion before opening this PR.
(You can open a new issue at https://github.com/desktop/desktop/issues/new/choose)
-->
**Closes #{issue number}**

## Description

-

## Release notes

<!--
If this is related to a feature, bugfix or improvement, please add a summary of the change to assist with drafting the release notes when this pull request is merged.

Some examples:

  - Adds support for Python 3 in GitHub Desktop CLI for macOS users
  - Fixes problem with commit being reset when switching between History and Changes tabs 
  - Fixes caret in co-author selector, which is hidden when dark theme is enabled
  - Improves status parsing performance when handling thousands of changed files

If you don't believe this change needs to be mentioned in the release notes, write "no-notes" to indicate this can be skipped.
-->

Notes:

Commit message:

add channel label and rework comments

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

## Overview

<!--
What issue are you addressing? (for example, #1234)

If an issue doesn't exist for this pull request (PR) to address, please open one to allow for discussion before opening this PR.
(You can open a new issue at https://github.com/desktop/desktop/issues/new/choose)
-->
**Closes #{issue number}**

## Description

-

## Release notes

<!--

If this is related to a feature, bugfix or improvement, we'd love your help to
summarize thes change to assist with drafting the release notes when this pull
request is merged.

You can leave this blank if you're not sure.

If you don't believe this needs to be mentioned in the release notes, write "no-notes".

Some examples of changelog entries from earlier releases:

  - Adds support for Python 3 in GitHub Desktop CLI for macOS users
  - Fixes problem with commit being reset when switching between History and Changes tabs
  - Fixes caret in co-author selector, which is hidden when dark theme is enabled
  - Improves status parsing performance when handling thousands of changed files

-->

Notes:

<!--

If the problem exists in a specific channel, can you add it here? This will help
simplify which users should see this changelog entry.

If this is left blank, we'll assume this was "production".

-->

Channel:
