docs/process/releasing-updates.md, before:

# Releasing Updates

## Channels

We have three channels to which we can release: `production`, `beta`, and `test`.

- `production` is the channel from which the general public downloads and receives updates. It should be stable and polished.

- `beta` is released more often than `production`. We want to ensure `development` is always in a state where it can be released to users, so it should be used as the source for `beta` releases as an opportunity for additional QA before releasing to `production`.

- `test` is unlike the other two. It does not receive updates. Each test release is locked in time. It's used entirely for providing test releases.

## The Process

### 1. GitHub Access Token

From a clean working directory, set the `GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment variable to a valid [Personal Access Token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)

To check that this environment variable is set in your shell:

**Bash (macOS, Linux or Git Bash)**
```shellsession
$ echo $GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

**Command Prompt**
```shellsession
$ echo %GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN%
```

**PowerShell**
```shellsession
$ echo $env:GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

If you are creating a new Personal Access Token on GitHub:
* make the token memorable - use a description like `Desktop Draft Release and Changelog Generator`
* the `read:org` scope is the **only** required scope for drafting releases

To set this access token as an environment in your shell:

**Bash (macOS, Linux or Git Bash)**
```shellsession
$ export GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN={your token here}
```

**Command Prompt**
```shellsession
$ set GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN={your token here}
```

**PowerShell**
```shellsession
$ $env:GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN="{your token here}"
```

### 2. Create Draft Release

Once the personal access token is set, run the script below, which will determine the next version from what was previously published, based on the desired channel.

For `production` and `beta` releases, run:

```shellsession
$ yarn draft-release (production|beta)
```

(For `test` releases, follow the directions in the steps below to update `app/package.json`'s `version` to a higher version and add a changelog entry. The script does not support test yet.)

The script will output a draft changelog, which covers everything that's been merged, and probably needs some love.
The output will then explain the next steps:

```shellsession
Here's what you should do next:

1. Update the app/package.json 'version' to '1.0.14-beta2' (make sure this aligns with semver format of 'major.minor.patch')
2. Concatenate this to the beginning of the releases element in the changelog.json as a starting point:
{
  "1.0.14-beta2": [
    "[???] Add RubyMine support for macOS - #3883. Thanks @gssbzn!",
    "[???] Allow window to accept single click on focus - #3843",
    "[???] Drop unnecessary comments before issue template - #3906",
    "[???] First-class changelog script for generating release notes - #3888",
    "[???] Fix expanded avatar stack overflow - #3884",
    "[???] Switch to a saner default gravatar size - #3911",
    "[Fixed] Add a repository settings store - #934",
    "[Fixed] Ensure renames are detected when viewing commit diffs - #3673",
    "[Fixed] Line endings are hard, lets go shopping - #3514",
  ]
}

3. Remove any entries of contributions that don't affect the end user
3. Update the release notes to have user-friendly summary lines
4. For issues prefixed with [???], look at the PR and update the prefix to one of: [New], [Added], [Fixed], [Improved], [Removed]
5. Sort the entries so that the prefixes are ordered: [New], [Added], [Fixed], [Improved], [Removed]
6. Commit the changes (on development or as new branch) and push them to GitHub
7. Read this to perform the release: https://github.com/desktop/desktop/blob/development/docs/process/releasing-updates.md
```

_Note: You should ensure the `version` in `app/package.json` is set to the new version and follows the [semver format](https://semver.org/) of `major.minor.patch`._

Examples:
* for prod, `1.1.0` -> `1.1.1` or `1.1.13` -> `1.2.0`
* for beta, `1.1.0-beta1` -> `1.1.0-beta2` or `1.1.13-beta3` -> `1.2.0-beta1`
* for test, `1.0.14-test2` -> `1.0.14-test3` or `1.1.14-test3` -> `1.2.0-test1`

Here's an example of the previous changelog draft after it has been edited:

```json
{
  "1.0.14-beta2": [
    "[Added] Add RubyMine support for macOS - #3883. Thanks @gssbzn!",
    "[Fixed] Allow window to accept single click on focus - #3843",
    "[Fixed] Expanded avatar list hidden behind commit details - #3884",
    "[Fixed] Renames not detected when viewing commit diffs - #3673",
    "[Fixed] Ignore action assumes CRLF when core.autocrlf is unset - #3514",
    "[Improved] Use smaller default size when rendering Gravatar avatars - #3911",
  ]
}
```

Create a new branch to represent the work that will be released to users:

 - for `beta` releases, branch from `development` to ensure the latest changes are published
 - for `production` releases, branch from the latest beta tag
    - to find this tag: `git tag | grep 'beta' | sort -r | head -n 1`

If you are creating a new beta release, the `yarn draft-release beta` command will help you find the new release entries for the changelog.

If you are create a new `production` release, you should just combine and sort the previous `beta` changelog entries.

Add your new changelog entries to `changelog.json`, update the version in `app/package.json`, commit the changes, and push this branch to GitHub. This becomes the release branch, and lets other maintainers continue to merge into `development` without affecting your release.

If a maintainer would like to backport a pull request to the next release, it is their responsibilty to co-ordinate with the release owner and ensure they are fine with accepting this work.

Once your release branch is ready to review and ship, add the `ready-for-review` label and ask the other maintainers to review and approve the changes!

### 3. Releasing

When you are ready to start the deployment, run this command in chat (where `X.Y.Z-release` is the name of your release branch):

```
.release! desktop/X.Y.Z-release to {production|beta|test}
```

We're using `.release` with a bang so that we don't have to wait for any current CI on the branch to finish. This might feel a little wrong, but it's OK since making the release itself will also run CI.

If you're releasing a `production` update, release a `beta` update for the next version too, so that beta users are on the latest release. For example, if the version just released to production is `1.2.0` then the beta release should be `1.2.1-beta0` to indicate there are no new changes on top of what's currently on `production`.

### 4. Check for Completed Release

Go to [Central's Deployments](https://central.github.com/deployments) to find your release; you'll see something at the top of the page like:
```
desktop/desktop deployed from {YOUR_BRANCH}@{HASH_ABBREVIATION_FOR_COMMIT} to {production|beta|test}
```
it will initially specify its state as `State: pending` and will be completed when it says `State: released`

You will also see this in Chat:
`desktopbot tagged desktop/release-{YOUR_VERSION}`

### 5. Test that your app auto-updates to new version

When the release in Central is in `State: released` for `beta` or `production`, switch to your installed Desktop instance and make sure that the corresponding (prod|beta) app auto-updates.

Testing that an update is detected, downloaded, and applied correctly is very important - if this is somehow broken during development then our users will not likely stay up to date!

If you don't have the app for `beta`, for example, you can always download the previous version on Central to see it update

_Make sure you move your application out of the Downloads folder and into the Applications folder for macOS or it won't auto-update_.

### 6. Check Error Reporting

If an error occurs during the release process, a needle will be reported to Central's [Haystack](https://haystack.githubapp.com/central).

After the release is deployed, you should monitor Desktop's [Haystack](https://haystack.githubapp.com/desktop) closely for 15 minutes to ensure no unexpected needles appear.

### 6. Celebrate

Once your app updates and you see the visible changes in your app and there are no spikes in errors, celebrate 🎉!!! You did it!

Also it might make sense to continue to monitor Haystack in the background for the next 24 hours.

Commit message:

add comment to doc about the pattern

docs/process/releasing-updates.md, after:

# Releasing Updates

## Channels

We have three channels to which we can release: `production`, `beta`, and `test`.

- `production` is the channel from which the general public downloads and receives updates. It should be stable and polished.

- `beta` is released more often than `production`. We want to ensure `development` is always in a state where it can be released to users, so it should be used as the source for `beta` releases as an opportunity for additional QA before releasing to `production`.

- `test` is unlike the other two. It does not receive updates. Each test release is locked in time. It's used entirely for providing test releases.

## The Process

### 1. GitHub Access Token

From a clean working directory, set the `GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment variable to a valid [Personal Access Token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)

To check that this environment variable is set in your shell:

**Bash (macOS, Linux or Git Bash)**
```shellsession
$ echo $GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

**Command Prompt**
```shellsession
$ echo %GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN%
```

**PowerShell**
```shellsession
$ echo $env:GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

If you are creating a new Personal Access Token on GitHub:
* make the token memorable - use a description like `Desktop Draft Release and Changelog Generator`
* the `read:org` scope is the **only** required scope for drafting releases

To set this access token as an environment in your shell:

**Bash (macOS, Linux or Git Bash)**
```shellsession
$ export GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN={your token here}
```

**Command Prompt**
```shellsession
$ set GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN={your token here}
```

**PowerShell**
```shellsession
$ $env:GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN="{your token here}"
```

### 2. Create Draft Release

Once the personal access token is set, run the script below, which will determine the next version from what was previously published, based on the desired channel.

For `production` and `beta` releases, run:

```shellsession
$ yarn draft-release (production|beta)
```

(For `test` releases, follow the directions in the steps below to update `app/package.json`'s `version` to a higher version and add a changelog entry. The script does not support test yet.)

The script will output a draft changelog, which covers everything that's been merged, and probably needs some love.
The output will then explain the next steps:

```shellsession
Here's what you should do next:

1. Update the app/package.json 'version' to '1.0.14-beta2' (make sure this aligns with semver format of 'major.minor.patch')
2. Concatenate this to the beginning of the releases element in the changelog.json as a starting point:
{
  "1.0.14-beta2": [
    "[???] Add RubyMine support for macOS - #3883. Thanks @gssbzn!",
    "[???] Allow window to accept single click on focus - #3843",
    "[???] Drop unnecessary comments before issue template - #3906",
    "[???] First-class changelog script for generating release notes - #3888",
    "[???] Fix expanded avatar stack overflow - #3884",
    "[???] Switch to a saner default gravatar size - #3911",
    "[Fixed] Add a repository settings store - #934",
    "[Fixed] Ensure renames are detected when viewing commit diffs - #3673",
    "[Fixed] Line endings are hard, lets go shopping - #3514",
  ]
}

3. Remove any entries of contributions that don't affect the end user
3. Update the release notes to have user-friendly summary lines
4. For issues prefixed with [???], look at the PR and update the prefix to one of: [New], [Added], [Fixed], [Improved], [Removed]
5. Sort the entries so that the prefixes are ordered: [New], [Added], [Fixed], [Improved], [Removed]
6. Commit the changes (on development or as new branch) and push them to GitHub
7. Read this to perform the release: https://github.com/desktop/desktop/blob/development/docs/process/releasing-updates.md
```

_Note: You should ensure the `version` in `app/package.json` is set to the new version and follows the [semver format](https://semver.org/) of `major.minor.patch`._

Examples:
* for prod, `1.1.0` -> `1.1.1` or `1.1.13` -> `1.2.0`
* for beta, `1.1.0-beta1` -> `1.1.0-beta2` or `1.1.13-beta3` -> `1.2.0-beta1`
* for test, `1.0.14-test2` -> `1.0.14-test3` or `1.1.14-test3` -> `1.2.0-test1`

Here's an example of the previous changelog draft after it has been edited:

```json
{
  "1.0.14-beta2": [
    "[Added] Add RubyMine support for macOS - #3883. Thanks @gssbzn!",
    "[Fixed] Allow window to accept single click on focus - #3843",
    "[Fixed] Expanded avatar list hidden behind commit details - #3884",
    "[Fixed] Renames not detected when viewing commit diffs - #3673",
    "[Fixed] Ignore action assumes CRLF when core.autocrlf is unset - #3514",
    "[Improved] Use smaller default size when rendering Gravatar avatars - #3911",
  ]
}
```

Create a new branch to represent the work that will be released to users:

 - for `beta` releases, branch from `development` to ensure the latest changes are published
 - for `production` releases, branch from the latest beta tag
    - to find this tag: `git tag | grep 'beta' | sort -r | head -n 1`

When naming the branch, ensure you use the `releases/[version]` pattern to ensure all CI platforms are aware of the branch and will build any PRs that target the branch.

If you are creating a new beta release, the `yarn draft-release beta` command will help you find the new release entries for the changelog.

If you are create a new `production` release, you should just combine and sort the previous `beta` changelog entries.

Add your new changelog entries to `changelog.json`, update the version in `app/package.json`, commit the changes, and push this branch to GitHub. This becomes the release branch, and lets other maintainers continue to merge into `development` without affecting your release.

If a maintainer would like to backport a pull request to the next release, it is their responsibilty to co-ordinate with the release owner and ensure they are fine with accepting this work.

Once your release branch is ready to review and ship, add the `ready-for-review` label and ask the other maintainers to review and approve the changes!

### 3. Releasing

When you are ready to start the deployment, run this command in chat (where `X.Y.Z-release` is the name of your release branch):

```
.release! desktop/X.Y.Z-release to {production|beta|test}
```

We're using `.release` with a bang so that we don't have to wait for any current CI on the branch to finish. This might feel a little wrong, but it's OK since making the release itself will also run CI.

If you're releasing a `production` update, release a `beta` update for the next version too, so that beta users are on the latest release. For example, if the version just released to production is `1.2.0` then the beta release should be `1.2.1-beta0` to indicate there are no new changes on top of what's currently on `production`.

### 4. Check for Completed Release

Go to [Central's Deployments](https://central.github.com/deployments) to find your release; you'll see something at the top of the page like:
```
desktop/desktop deployed from {YOUR_BRANCH}@{HASH_ABBREVIATION_FOR_COMMIT} to {production|beta|test}
```
it will initially specify its state as `State: pending` and will be completed when it says `State: released`

You will also see this in Chat:
`desktopbot tagged desktop/release-{YOUR_VERSION}`

### 5. Test that your app auto-updates to new version

When the release in Central is in `State: released` for `beta` or `production`, switch to your installed Desktop instance and make sure that the corresponding (prod|beta) app auto-updates.

Testing that an update is detected, downloaded, and applied correctly is very important - if this is somehow broken during development then our users will not likely stay up to date!

If you don't have the app for `beta`, for example, you can always download the previous version on Central to see it update

_Make sure you move your application out of the Downloads folder and into the Applications folder for macOS or it won't auto-update_.

### 6. Check Error Reporting

If an error occurs during the release process, a needle will be reported to Central's [Haystack](https://haystack.githubapp.com/central).

After the release is deployed, you should monitor Desktop's [Haystack](https://haystack.githubapp.com/desktop) closely for 15 minutes to ensure no unexpected needles appear.

### 6. Celebrate

Once your app updates and you see the visible changes in your app and there are no spikes in errors, celebrate 🎉!!! You did it!

Also it might make sense to continue to monitor Haystack in the background for the next 24 hours.
