docs/contributing/setup-linux.md, before:

# Setting Up Development Dependencies on Linux

You will need to install these tools on your machine:

 - Node.js v8.12.0 (also ensure you can build native modules)
 - Python 2.7
 - Electron dependencies

## Node.js

The GitHub Desktop toolchain currently requires Node 8.x currently, and the
NodeJS project has instructions for installing across a variety of
distributions and package managers.

Find your distribution on [this list](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/)
and follow the instructions to install the version you require.

## Python 2

Refer to your distributions package manager to obtain the latest version of the
Python 2 series.

## Electron dependencies

There are some additional dependencies which are required as part of building
and running GitHub Desktop locally:

 - `libsecret-1.so.0` for reading and writing credentials using [`keytar`](https://github.com/atom/node-keytar)
 - `libXss.so.1` - the library for the X11 screen saver extension

Where to find these will vary based on your distribution, but below are some
examples of distributions we've tested.

### Fedora 26 and later

```shellsession
$ sudo dnf install -y libsecret-devel libXScrnSaver
```

### Ubuntu 14.04 and later

```shellsession
$ sudo apt install libsecret-1-dev
```

Commit message:

move yarn instructions into each section to ensure it's not overlooked

docs/contributing/setup-linux.md, after:

# Setting Up Development Dependencies on Linux

You will need to install these tools on your machine:

 - Node.js v8.12.0 (also ensure you can build native modules)
 - Yarn
 - Python 2.7
 - Electron dependencies

## Node.js

The GitHub Desktop toolchain currently requires Node 8.x currently, and the
NodeJS project has instructions for installing across a variety of
distributions and package managers.

Find your distribution on [this list](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/)
and follow the instructions to install the version you require.

## Yarn

Follow [this guide](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) to install
a system-level `yarn` for your distribution. GitHub Desktop uses a local version
of `yarn`, but it needs a version on your `PATH` to bootstrap itself.

This is important because `yarn` uses lock files to pin dependencies. If you
find yourself changing packages, this will prevent mismatches in versions
between machines.

If you're not familiar with `yarn`, please read [this document](./working-with-packages.md)
to help familiarize yourself with how to do the common package tasks that are
relevant to Desktop.

## Python 2

Refer to your distributions package manager to obtain the latest version of the
Python 2 series.

## Electron dependencies

There are some additional dependencies which are required as part of building
and running GitHub Desktop locally:

 - `libsecret-1.so.0` for reading and writing credentials using [`keytar`](https://github.com/atom/node-keytar)
 - `libXss.so.1` - the library for the X11 screen saver extension

Where to find these will vary based on your distribution, but below are some
examples of distributions we've tested.

### Fedora 26 and later

```shellsession
$ sudo dnf install -y libsecret-devel libXScrnSaver
```

### Ubuntu 14.04 and later

```shellsession
$ sudo apt install libsecret-1-dev
```
